README.md, before:

# tap-monday

`tap-monday` is a Singer tap for Monday.com.

Built with the [Meltano Tap SDK](https://sdk.meltano.com) for Singer Taps.

## Install in Meltano

```
meltano install extractor tap-monday
meltano invoke tap-monday
meltano elt tap-monday your-target
```

## Config Examples

### Tap

```
{
  "api_url": "https://api.monday.com/v2",
  "auth_token": "yourauthenticationtoken",
  "board_limit": 10, # limit per page
}
```

### Meltano

In meltano.yml:

```
plugins:
  extractors:
...
  - name: tap-monday
    namespace: tap_monday
    pip_url: git+https://github.com/fixdauto/tap-monday.git
    executable: tap-monday
    capabilities:
    - discover
    - state
    - catalog
    settings:
    - name: auth_token
      env: TAP_MONDAY_AUTH_TOKEN
      kind: password
      label: Authentication Token
      documentation: https://support.monday.com/hc/en-us/articles/360005144659-Does-monday-com-have-an-API-
      description: Authentication token you should generate in your Monday.com account. Look under the Admin settings.
    - name: api_url
      kind: string
      value: https://api.monday.com/v2
      label: Monday.com web-API endpoint
      description: Monday.com web-API endpoint URL
    - name: board_limit
      kind: integer
      value: 50
      label: Maximum number of boards to return per page/query
      description: Maximum number of boards to return per page/query.
    select:
    - boards.*
    - items.*
    - columns.*
    - groups.*
    - column_values.*
    metadata:
      boards:
        replication-method: INCREMENTAL
        replication-key: updated_at
      items:
        replication-method: INCREMENTAL
        replication-key: updated_at
```


With [target-snowflake](https://github.com/fixdauto/target-snowflake) and under 4GB total RAM use these settings for the loader so the process won't exceed the available memory:
```
loaders:
...
  - name: target-snowflake
    pip_url: git+https://github.com/fixdauto/target-snowflake@fixd
...
    config:
...
      max_batch_rows: 250
```
Low max_batch_rows work well with low rate limits because Meltano spends some time inserting values between API calls.


## When you change the code

Setup
```
git clone
cd tap-monday
poetry install
```

Manual check, use the config from above
```
poetry run tap-monday --config ../tap-monday-config.json --test
poetry run tap-monday --config ../tap-monday-config.json
```

Test and lint before committing. It should pass MyPy, Black, Falke8 and PyDocStyle.
```
poetry run pydocstyle tap_monday
poetry run mypy tap_monday
poetry run black
poetry run flake8 tap_monday
poetry run pytest
```

## Limitations

Monday.com API in most cases doesn't have record timestamps neither a way to query by timestamps. So full dataset is being queried on every run.

The tap adds tapped_at field so it's easier to track down the line (in Meltano) when records were added or updated.

Commit message:

Restrict board IDs. Retry on 104 HTTP error.

README.md, after:

# tap-monday

`tap-monday` is a Singer tap for Monday.com.

Built with the [Meltano Tap SDK](https://sdk.meltano.com) for Singer Taps.

## Install in Meltano

```
meltano install extractor tap-monday
meltano invoke tap-monday
meltano elt tap-monday your-target
```

## Config Examples

### Tap

```
{
  "api_url": "https://api.monday.com/v2",
  "auth_token": "yourauthenticationtoken",
  "board_limit": 10, # limit per page
  "board_ids": [1231231230, 3453453450] # optional, limit to specifics boards to speed up the process and reduce memory leaks
}
```

### Meltano

In meltano.yml:

```
plugins:
  extractors:
...
  - name: tap-monday
    namespace: tap_monday
    pip_url: git+https://github.com/fixdauto/tap-monday.git
    executable: tap-monday
    capabilities:
    - discover
    - state
    - catalog
    settings:
    - name: auth_token
      env: TAP_MONDAY_AUTH_TOKEN
      kind: password
      label: Authentication Token
      documentation: https://support.monday.com/hc/en-us/articles/360005144659-Does-monday-com-have-an-API-
      description: Authentication token you should generate in your Monday.com account. Look under the Admin settings.
    - name: api_url
      kind: string
      value: https://api.monday.com/v2
      label: Monday.com web-API endpoint
      description: Monday.com web-API endpoint URL
    - name: board_limit
      kind: integer
      value: 50
      label: Maximum number of boards to return per page/query
      description: Maximum number of boards to return per page/query.
    - name: board_ids
      kind: integer
      value:
        - 1231231230
        - 3453453450
        - 4564564560
      label: Board IDs
      description: Get only specific borads. Column Values dataset size depends on number of boards and might be disproportionally large even in a small organisation. That might cause memory leaks and long execution times.
    select:
    - boards.*
    - items.*
    - columns.*
    - groups.*
    - column_values.*
    metadata:
      boards:
        replication-method: INCREMENTAL
        replication-key: updated_at
      items:
        replication-method: INCREMENTAL
        replication-key: updated_at
```


With [target-snowflake](https://github.com/fixdauto/target-snowflake) and under 4GB total RAM use these settings for the loader so the process won't exceed the available memory:
```
loaders:
...
  - name: target-snowflake
    pip_url: git+https://github.com/fixdauto/target-snowflake@fixd
...
    config:
...
      max_batch_rows: 250
```
Low max_batch_rows work well with low rate limits because Meltano spends some time inserting values between API calls.


## When you change the code

Setup
```
git clone
cd tap-monday
poetry install
```

Manual check, use the config from above
```
poetry run tap-monday --config ../tap-monday-config.json --test
poetry run tap-monday --config ../tap-monday-config.json
```

Test and lint before committing. It should pass MyPy, Black, Falke8 and PyDocStyle.
```
poetry run pydocstyle tap_monday
poetry run mypy tap_monday
poetry run black ./
poetry run flake8 tap_monday
poetry run pytest
```

## Limitations

Monday.com API in most cases doesn't have record timestamps neither a way to query by timestamps. So full dataset is being queried on every run.

The tap adds tapped_at field so it's easier to track down the line (in Meltano) when records were added or updated.
